README.md, before:

Soft Serve
==========

<p>
    <picture>
        <source srcset="https://stuff.charm.sh/soft-serve/soft-serve-header.webp?0" type="image/webp">
        <img style="width: 451px" src="https://stuff.charm.sh/soft-serve/soft-serve-header.png?0" alt="A nice rendering of some melting ice cream with the words ‘Charm Soft Serve’ next to it">
    </picture><br>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/charmbracelet/soft-serve.svg" alt="Latest Release"></a>
    <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve?tab=doc"><img src="https://godoc.org/github.com/golang/gddo?status.svg" alt="GoDoc"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/actions"><img src="https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/workflows/build/badge.svg" alt="Build Status"></a>
    <a href="https://nightly.link/charmbracelet/soft-serve/workflows/nightly/main"><img src="https://shields.io/badge/-Nightly%20Builds-orange?logo=hackthebox&logoColor=fff&style=appveyor"/></a>
</p>

A tasty, self-hostable Git server for the command line. 🍦

<img src="https://stuff.charm.sh/soft-serve/soft-serve-cli-demo.gif" width="700" alt="Soft Serve screencast">

* Configure with `git`
* Create repos on demand with `git push`
* Browse repos with an SSH-accessible TUI
* Easy access control
  - Allow/disallow anonymous access
  - Add collaborators with SSH public keys
  - Repos can be public or private

## Where can I see it?

Just run `ssh git.charm.sh` for an example.

## Installation

Soft Serve is a single binary called `soft`. You can get it from a package
manager:

```bash
# macOS or Linux
brew tap charmbracelet/tap && brew install charmbracelet/tap/soft-serve

# Arch Linux
yay -S soft-serve
```

You can also download a binary from the [releases][releases] page. Packages are
available in Alpine, Debian, and RPM formats. Binaries are available for Linux,
macOS, and Windows.

[releases]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/releases

Or just install it with `go`:

```bash
go install github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/cmd/soft@latest
```

## Setting up a server

Make sure `git` is installed, then run `soft`. That’s it.

A [Docker image][docker] is also available.

[docker]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/blob/main/docker.md

## Configuration

The Soft Serve configuration is simple and straightforward:

```yaml
# The name of the server to show in the TUI.
name: Soft Serve

# The host and port to display in the TUI. You may want to change this if your
# server is accessible from a different host and/or port that what it's
# actually listening on (for example, if it's behind a reverse proxy).
host: localhost
port: 23231

# The access level for anonymous users. Options are: read-write, read-only
# and no-access.
anon-access: read-write

# You can grant read-only access to users without private keys.
allow-keyless: false

# Which repos should appear in the menu?
repos:
  - name: Home
    repo: config
    private: true
    note: "Configuration and content repo for this server"
  - name: Example Public Repo
    repo: my-public-repo
    private: false
    note: "A publicly-accessible repo"
  - name: Example Private Repo
    repo: my-private-repo
    private: true
    note: "A private repo"

# Authorized users. Admins have full access to all repos. Regular users
# can read all repos and push to their collab-repos.
users:
  - name: Beatrice
    admin: true
    public-keys:
      - ssh-rsa AAAAB3Nz...   # redacted
      - ssh-ed25519 AAAA...   # redacted
  - name: Frankie
    collab-repos:
      - my-public-repo
      - my-private-repo
    public-keys:
      - ssh-rsa AAAAB3Nz...   # redacted
      - ssh-ed25519 AAAA...   # redacted
```

When `soft` is run for the first time, it creates a configuration repo
containing the main README displayed in the TUI as well as a config file for
user access control.

```
git clone ssh://localhost:23231/config
```

The `config` repo is publicly writable by default, so be sure to setup your
access as desired. You can also set the `SOFT_SERVE_INITIAL_ADMIN_KEY`
environment variable before first run and it will restrict access to that
initial public key until you configure things otherwise.
If you're having trouble, make sure you have generated keys with `ssh-keygen`
as configuration is not supported for keyless users.

## Pushing (and creating!) repos

You can add your Soft Serve server as a remote to any existing repo:

```
git remote add soft ssh://localhost:23231/REPO
```

After you’ve added the remote just go ahead and push. If the repo doesn’t exist
on the server it’ll be created.

```
git push soft main
```

## The Soft Serve TUI

Soft Serve serves a TUI over SSH for browsing repos, viewing READMEs, and
grabbing clone commands:

```
ssh localhost -p 23231
```

It's also possible to “link” to a specific repo:

```
ssh localhost -t -p 23231 REPO
```

### Server Settings

In addition to the Git-based configuration above, there are a few
environment-level settings:

* `SOFT_SERVE_PORT`: SSH listen port (_default 23231_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_HOST`: SSH listen host (_default 0.0.0.0_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_KEY_PATH`: SSH host key-pair path (_default .ssh/soft_serve_server_ed25519_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_REPO_PATH`: Path where repos are stored (_default .repos_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_INITIAL_ADMIN_KEY`: The public key that will initially have admin access to repos (_default ""_). This must be set before `soft` runs for the first time and creates the `config` repo. If set after the `config` repo has been created, this setting has no effect.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/raw/main/LICENSE)

***

Part of [Charm](https://charm.sh).

<a href="https://charm.sh/"><img alt="The Charm logo" src="https://stuff.charm.sh/charm-badge-unrounded.jpg" width="400"></a>

Charm热爱开源 • Charm loves open source

Commit message:

docs: readme about RSA SHA2 keys

README.md, after:

Soft Serve
==========

<p>
    <picture>
        <source srcset="https://stuff.charm.sh/soft-serve/soft-serve-header.webp?0" type="image/webp">
        <img style="width: 451px" src="https://stuff.charm.sh/soft-serve/soft-serve-header.png?0" alt="A nice rendering of some melting ice cream with the words ‘Charm Soft Serve’ next to it">
    </picture><br>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/charmbracelet/soft-serve.svg" alt="Latest Release"></a>
    <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve?tab=doc"><img src="https://godoc.org/github.com/golang/gddo?status.svg" alt="GoDoc"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/actions"><img src="https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/workflows/build/badge.svg" alt="Build Status"></a>
    <a href="https://nightly.link/charmbracelet/soft-serve/workflows/nightly/main"><img src="https://shields.io/badge/-Nightly%20Builds-orange?logo=hackthebox&logoColor=fff&style=appveyor"/></a>
</p>

A tasty, self-hostable Git server for the command line. 🍦

<img src="https://stuff.charm.sh/soft-serve/soft-serve-cli-demo.gif" width="700" alt="Soft Serve screencast">

* Configure with `git`
* Create repos on demand with `git push`
* Browse repos with an SSH-accessible TUI
* Easy access control
  - Allow/disallow anonymous access
  - Add collaborators with SSH public keys
  - Repos can be public or private

## Where can I see it?

Just run `ssh git.charm.sh` for an example.

## Installation

Soft Serve is a single binary called `soft`. You can get it from a package
manager:

```bash
# macOS or Linux
brew tap charmbracelet/tap && brew install charmbracelet/tap/soft-serve

# Arch Linux
yay -S soft-serve
```

You can also download a binary from the [releases][releases] page. Packages are
available in Alpine, Debian, and RPM formats. Binaries are available for Linux,
macOS, and Windows.

[releases]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/releases

Or just install it with `go`:

```bash
go install github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/cmd/soft@latest
```

## Setting up a server

Make sure `git` is installed, then run `soft`. That’s it.

A [Docker image][docker] is also available.

[docker]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/blob/main/docker.md

## Configuration

The Soft Serve configuration is simple and straightforward:

```yaml
# The name of the server to show in the TUI.
name: Soft Serve

# The host and port to display in the TUI. You may want to change this if your
# server is accessible from a different host and/or port that what it's
# actually listening on (for example, if it's behind a reverse proxy).
host: localhost
port: 23231

# The access level for anonymous users. Options are: read-write, read-only
# and no-access.
anon-access: read-write

# You can grant read-only access to users without private keys.
allow-keyless: false

# Which repos should appear in the menu?
repos:
  - name: Home
    repo: config
    private: true
    note: "Configuration and content repo for this server"
  - name: Example Public Repo
    repo: my-public-repo
    private: false
    note: "A publicly-accessible repo"
  - name: Example Private Repo
    repo: my-private-repo
    private: true
    note: "A private repo"

# Authorized users. Admins have full access to all repos. Regular users
# can read all repos and push to their collab-repos.
users:
  - name: Beatrice
    admin: true
    public-keys:
      - ssh-rsa AAAAB3Nz...   # redacted
      - ssh-ed25519 AAAA...   # redacted
  - name: Frankie
    collab-repos:
      - my-public-repo
      - my-private-repo
    public-keys:
      - ssh-rsa AAAAB3Nz...   # redacted
      - ssh-ed25519 AAAA...   # redacted
```

When `soft` is run for the first time, it creates a configuration repo
containing the main README displayed in the TUI as well as a config file for
user access control.

```
git clone ssh://localhost:23231/config
```

The `config` repo is publicly writable by default, so be sure to setup your
access as desired. You can also set the `SOFT_SERVE_INITIAL_ADMIN_KEY`
environment variable before first run and it will restrict access to that
initial public key until you configure things otherwise.
If you're having trouble, make sure you have generated keys with `ssh-keygen`
as configuration is not supported for keyless users.

## Pushing (and creating!) repos

You can add your Soft Serve server as a remote to any existing repo:

```
git remote add soft ssh://localhost:23231/REPO
```

After you’ve added the remote just go ahead and push. If the repo doesn’t exist
on the server it’ll be created.

```
git push soft main
```

## The Soft Serve TUI

Soft Serve serves a TUI over SSH for browsing repos, viewing READMEs, and
grabbing clone commands:

```
ssh localhost -p 23231
```

It's also possible to “link” to a specific repo:

```
ssh localhost -t -p 23231 REPO
```

### Server Settings

In addition to the Git-based configuration above, there are a few
environment-level settings:

* `SOFT_SERVE_PORT`: SSH listen port (_default 23231_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_HOST`: SSH listen host (_default 0.0.0.0_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_KEY_PATH`: SSH host key-pair path (_default .ssh/soft_serve_server_ed25519_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_REPO_PATH`: Path where repos are stored (_default .repos_)
* `SOFT_SERVE_INITIAL_ADMIN_KEY`: The public key that will initially have admin access to repos (_default ""_). This must be set before `soft` runs for the first time and creates the `config` repo. If set after the `config` repo has been created, this setting has no effect.


### A note about RSA keys

Go's `x/crypto/ssh` package does not support new SSH RSA keys, only the old
SHA-1 ones are supported.

To be able to access a soft-serve instance, you'd either need an SHA-1 RSA key,
or some other algorithm, e.g. ED25519.

If you're curious about the inner workings of this, check out the following
links:

- https://github.com/golang/go/issues/37278
- https://go-review.googlesource.com/c/crypto/+/220037
- https://github.com/golang/crypto/pull/197

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/charmbracelet/soft-serve/raw/main/LICENSE)

***

Part of [Charm](https://charm.sh).

<a href="https://charm.sh/"><img alt="The Charm logo" src="https://stuff.charm.sh/charm-badge-unrounded.jpg" width="400"></a>

Charm热爱开源 • Charm loves open source
